---
title: Sicp Ex 1.9
date: 2020/10/22
---

This is the First question in Section to of
Chapter one in Sicp. Here we are comparing 
recursion and iteration.

# The Question

**Exercise 1.9:**Each of the following two procedures defines
a method for adding two positive integers in terms of the
procedures `inc`, which increments its argument by 1, and `dec`,
which decrements its argument by 1.

```scheme
(define (+ a b)
  (if (= a 0)
      b
      (inc (+ (dec a) b))))

(define (+ a b)
  (if (= a 0)
      b
      (+ (dec a) (inc b))))
```

Using the substitution model, illustrate the process generated by
each procedure in evaluating `(+ 4 5)`. Are these processes iterative or recursive?

# My Thoughts

Before we start with this question, let us recap what is 
recursion and what is iteration. (In simple language. I do 
not consider my words fit to be a definition)

## What is Recursion?

A process is a Recursive Process only if the "shape" of the
process changes, and the data of the various steps involved 
is maintained by the interpreter **internally**.

## What is Iteration?

A process is an iterative process only if the shape
**does not** change and the data of the various steps
involved is maintained by a function in the form of various
parameters


# The Answer

Let us manually evaluate `(+ 4 5)` where the process `+` is
the first definition. So:

```scheme
(+ 4 5)
(inc (+ 3 5)
(inc (inc (+ 2 5)))
(inc (inc (inc (+ 1 5))))
(inc (inc (inc (inc (+ 0 5)))))
(inc (inc (inc (inc 5))))
(inc (inc (inc 6)))
(inc (inc 7))
(inc 8)
9
```

We can see that the "shape" of the process changes.
We also observe that the number of levels `inc` was
executed is only known by the interpreter. Thus, we
can say that is a **recursive process**

Now let us evaluate `(4 5)` where `+` is the second
definition:

```scheme
(+ 4 5)
(+ 3 6)
(+ 2 7)
(+ 1 8)
(+ 0 9)
```

We see that the "shape" of the process remains the same.
We should also note that the information where the Interpreter
is maintained by the function. We can hence, conclude that that
this is an **iterative process**.
