---
title: Sicp Ex 1.14
date: 2020/10/28
---

This the 14th exercise in Sicp. Here, we draw
a tree of the `count-change` procedure, and find
how the space required and the number of steps
grows.

# The Question

**Exercise 1.14:** Draw the tree illustrating the process generated by
the `count-change` procedure of [Section 1.2.2](https://benjamin-philip.github.io/sicp/example-counting-change) in making change for
11 cents. What are the orders of growth of the space and number of
steps used by this process as the amount to be changed increases?

# My Thoughts

I feel we should have a quick recap of what is order of growth.

## Why do we need order of growth

When a program is run, tons of factors affect the running time of
a code on a machine such as OS load, OS scheduling, implemented atomic
operations on CPU ets. So Scientists, could not Analalyze an algorithm
simply by measuring the time a computation takes. Hence, they came
up with the theoretical definition of order of growth.

## What is *n*?

One thing for sure impacting running time and that is the input of the code,
usually noted by *n*. Since *n* can be very large, these notations are also
known a asymptomatic notations. So when we talk about we assume *n* is 
arbitrarily large (we don't care about small input size).

## What is considered as a step

If you look at Sicp's explanation, you will notice that there is no
explanation for *what* is considered a step. Therefore, I will try to
give an explanation of what is my understanding.

Here is an example with 1 atomic step:

```scheme
(define a (+ c b))
```

It has a summation and an assignment. Another example in python:

```python
for i in range(n):
    print(i)
```

This has *n* atomic steps as print will be run *n* times.

Consider this example:

```python
for i in range(n):
    for j in range(n):
        print(j)
```

Here the number of atomic steps are $n^{2}$.

Now consider **this** example:

```python
for i in range(n):
    for j in range(i, n):
        print(j)
```

If *n* was 5, in the first iteration, there would 5 steps. In the second, 4. In the third, 3 etc.
And thus we can form the general formula that the number of steps would be $\frac{n \times (n + 1)}{2}$
If you calculate that formula, you will get $\frac{n^{2} + n}{2}$.

## What is Order of Growth of Steps


Now Order of Growth of Steps is an approximation of how the number of steps increase.
Now, the reason I say an approximation is because we only want how it grows - 
Wheter if the number of steps increase or linearly, or quadratically, ($n^{2}$) or 
logaritmically ($\log n$).

Essentially we take the Degree of our "formula". Take our last example:

$$ \frac{n^{2} + n}{2} $$

We see the degree of this Polynomial is 2
So we say that the Order of Growth is *$\thetha(n^{2})$*.

Look at the 3rd Example - it has *n* steps. So the
Order of Growth is $\thetha(n)$

## What is Order of Growth of Space


